New website
###########
:date: 2012-08-25 17:40
:category: Miscellaneous
:slug: new-website
:status: published

After a week of hard work, tweaking and searching for a perfect CMS,
finally, I am satisfied with my web server setup. The hardest part was
to decide on a CMS. After a lot of testing I have settled in Wordpress.
My web server is running well. Apache, MySQL and PHP are playing nice
together.

My web server runs on a `Raspberry Pi <http://raspberrypi.org>`__, a
credit card sized, $25 computer based on ARM processor capable of
running GNU/Linux. It is a cute little computer sitting quietly at a
corner of my home consuming very little power. It is not a work horse
but its good enough for serving web pages for my wife and myself.

Previously, I installed `Arch Linux Arm <http://archlinuxarm.org>`__ on
my Raspberry Pi. But later I installed
`Raspbian <http://www.raspbian.org/>`__, a Debian based distribution
optimized for the Raspberry Pi.

For the DNS service, I use free dynamic DNS provided by
`DNSdynamic <https://www.dnsdynamic.org>`__. If everything works out I
am going to register my own domain name for this website.

As I said, the hardest part was finding a perfect CMS for me. I have
tested Joomla, Drupal and Wordpress. Initially I was inclined to Joomla
since I used it `before <http://teacher.buet.ac.bd/masum_habib>`__. But
after some testing I found that it is easy to modify wordpress themes
and I can control everything and anything I like. So, here I am with my
shining new website generated by wordpress with a customized theme.

This is a brief history of this website. I am planning on writing some
tutorials on how to set up Raspbian/Debian, Apache, MySQL, PHP,
wordpress ... the whole webserver. So, stay tuned.
